So we've set up Terraform
cloud automation, fantastic,
we've also made it so that we have dynamic
configuration so that we can add or
remove workspaces pretty easily, cool.
Then we've set up using VCS tracking so
that every workspace we create Knows
that it must track a repository so
that we have our GitOps paradigm
completely standardized.
Then we set up our source control
automation so that when we wanna create
additional automation repositories
going forward, we can easily do that.
So what do we do next?
Well, now we're finally at the fun part,
which is we need to create
cloud resources, right?
Now, with this going forward,
this is really going to be the standard
process you're going to take to
creating resources within this system.
It is now set up, right?
We've created all the repos,
we've done all the importing,
we've done all the keying pretty much and
everything else.
Now there might be additional
keys in the future, all right?
If it's Amazon or Google or whatever,
but the process is pretty
much gonna be the same.
So the first thing we wanna do is we
actually want to go to our GitHub
automation because we want to
create our repos first, okay?
So I'm gonna go to the locals file, here.
Now before I do this actually, I wanna
create a branch, right, because I can't
push the master anymore unless I
override it and I just reran my plan.
So it's really not gonna let me do that.
So you have two options, you can
either create a branch if you'd like,
which is what I'm gonna go ahead and do.
So I'm gonna say git checkout -b,
and we'll just call this
feature/add-repos, just something simple,
right?
Now, I'm in a brand new branch,
so I do get status.
We can see that I'm now in
feature/add-repos, right and
we wanna add some new repos.
I'm gonna say locals.
And we're gonna add two new repos.
We're actually gonna do all of our
automation repos at once for Amazon.
Sorry, copied a little too much there.
Boy, let me just try
that copy one more time.
How's that sound?
Okay, so let's go here, copy.
And again,
this is in the same GitHub repo.
In the GitHub repo, if you go to the next
branch in the GitHub repo automation,
this should be there.
And so I believe it's five or
six, one of the two.
>> Set up AWS infrastructure?
>> Yes, yeah.
Set up AWS infrastructure.
Let me, AWS or GitHub.
Yep, so here you go.
This is for this, cool.
Cool, so again,
you can use the second branch set up or
the five branch to use
this as a reference.
And you might want to, for the Amazon
part, this one's a little bit easier.
But I'll do it as well.
So I'll just go to locals,
I'm gonna copy both terraform
network AWS and cluster.
And don't forget we're gonna
wanna set these to public.
Do not forget to set those to public
otherwise you might run into problems.
And that's it.
Validate, git add locals, git commit,
or git status, git commit.
Right?
Added aws repos, git push, origin,
and then we're not gonna push main,
we're actually gonna push to our branch.
Now, what's really cool
about this approach,
especially if you use GitHub CLI,
you can be really quick with this.
So you can be like, all right, I've
made my changes, I made my branch, okay,
gh pr create.
And it will actually help you go through
the GitHub Creation PR process, right?
This is how I create PRs.
And this is why I think if you're using
GitHub at least, this is a good approach.
Because if not,
then your other alternative is to go to
the actual repository itself, right?
See, I've got a new branch here,
compare and pull request, and
then open up a pull request for
your changes.
This is the developer flow now.
I'm gonna go here, I'm gonna create one
for me, and then I'm just gonna make it so
I can do it via CLI, and then I get
a nice little URL that it gives me.
Now, what's cool,
look at that Terraform Cloud is also
directly integrated into GitHub.
So we have status checks and
pipelines built in.
So now what I can do is I can click on
this little status check right here and
then I can actually go to terraform cloud
and look at the run for that change.
And look at that,
my new repos are getting created.
And as I said before,
you might see bugs like this.
It's fine, that's fine,
don't worry about that.
We know that that's what we
wanna set it to, so it's okay.
That's a bug in the GitHub
repository resource.
But these are all brand new, okay?
So what does that mean?
It's really easy to create repos now.
Really easy.
I did it in five minutes if not less,
right?
So what I'm gonna do is,
is I'm gonna go back to my pr,
just review my changes really quickly,
right?
And then I'm going to squash and merge.
Now, if I go to my main branch,
just like the other branches,
I should get a status check, right?
So if I go to Details for this,
This is the actual real apply, right?
So it gave us a plan in our branch, but
this is where it'll actually give us
the ability to confirm and apply.
So we're gonna hit Confirm and Apply.
>> Is that because it was on
a branch that it didn't do?
>> Yes, exactly.
>> So it recognized that it's not main.
>> Exactly, yeah.
That's why it helps with
the developer flow, yeah.
>> Yeah.
Did we tell it that main is
the main branch somewhere?
>> In the GitHub organization defaults,
it's main.
Yeah, they moved from master to main.
>> Now,
is this also creating the repo in GitHub?
>> Yeah, it is.
>> Or do we need
>> It is, yeah.
So, cuz we just updated the GitHub repo,
GitHub automation repo.
So now, if I go to my profile,
I have six repos now, look at that.
I told you we're gonna start cooking.
All right, so now we got to
fem-eci-terraform-aws-cluster and
eci-terrafrom-aws-network.
And again, we also know that our
source of truth is updated, so
we know that it's tracked and
it's maintained.
Now, I'm just deleting the local branch.
That's all I just did,
was just to clean up my TFE, GitHub repo,
you don't have to do that but it's just
something I like to do in the off chance
that I create a new branch in the future.
You can also do get branch
-d feature/add-repos, and
then it'll delete it if it's there but
I'm gonna go ahead and
also pull in main because remember I
was on a branch, I wasn't on main.
So I got to make sure I come back
to main and pull in my changes so
that I can continue to
automate with the right state.
Any questions about that?
>> What if it didn't run when
the change was committed?
You can go into Terraform cloud and
manually do a run.
Yeah, so if it didn't run for any reason,
you can always go into Terraform cloud.
Go up in the top right-hand corner and
press Start Run.
There are some times where GitHub
webhooks get weird and that might happen,
but I would also make sure that
your VCs control is in fact set up.